README.md, before:

MediaWiki-Vendor
================

[Composer] managed libraries required or recommended for use with [MediaWiki].
This repository is maintained for use on the Wikimedia Foundation production
and testing clusters, but may be useful for anyone wishing to avoid directly
managing MediaWiki dependencies with Composer.


Usage
-----

Checkout this library into $IP/vendor using `git clone <URL>` or add the
repository as a git submodule using `git submodule add <URL> vendor` followed
by `git submodule update --init`.


Adding or updating libraries
----------------------------

0. Read the [documentation] on the process for adding new libraries.
1. Ensure you're using version 2.8.1 of composer via `composer --version`.
   Everyone using the same version means that diffs from the autoloader are
   minimal and so easier to validate and manually rebase. This is most easily
   done with Docker. For example, to run `composer update --no-dev` do:
   ```
   docker run --rm -it -u "$(id -u):$(id -g)" -v "$PWD/.git:/src/.git:ro" -v "$PWD:/src" -w /src docker-registry.wikimedia.org/releng/composer-php74:0.3.3-s4 update --no-dev
   ```
2. Edit the composer.json file to add/update the libraries you want to change.
   It is recommended that you use `composer require <package> <version>
   --no-update` to do so as composer will then automatically sort the
   composer.json file.
3. Run `composer update --no-dev` to download files and update the autoloader.
4. Add all the new dependencies that got installed to composer.json as well,
   so that everything has their version pinned. (You can look at the changes
   in composer.lock or composer/installed.json to see what they are.)
5. In some cases, the libraries might include not needed files (e.g. test files,
   project files, etc). If you cannot exclude them from library's archive
   (e.g. by `export-ignore`ing unwanted files in library's `.gitattributes`
   file), you can skip checking them in by listing them in `.gitignore` file.
6. Rarely, lint checks fail because test files in some library were written
   for an unsupported PHP version. In that case add the test directories to
   the --exclude parameter in the script > test field in composer.json, and
   to .gitignore.
7. Add and commit changes as a gerrit patch.
8. Review and merge changes.

Note that you MUST pair patches changing versions of libraries used by MediaWiki
itself with ones for the "core" repo. Specifically, the patch in mediawiki/core
must have a `Depends-On` footer to the patch in mediawiki/vendor.

The vendor repo has special configuration, which skips the integrity checks and
so allowing a circular dependency Gordian knot to be fixed. However, this means
that, if merged alone without a pair, you'll cause ALL patches in MediaWiki and
ALL extensions to fail their continuous integration tests.

If in doubt, seek advice from regular commiters to this repository.


[Composer]: https://getcomposer.org/
[MediaWiki]: https://www.mediawiki.org/wiki/MediaWiki
[documentation]: https://www.mediawiki.org/wiki/Manual:External_libraries

Commit message:

Mention composer self-update in README
It was using a rather unorthodox definition of "most easily".

Change-Id: Ie27ecccfb90240494e6f14d4788f96e1762ad67b

README.md, after:

MediaWiki-Vendor
================

[Composer] managed libraries required or recommended for use with [MediaWiki].
This repository is maintained for use on the Wikimedia Foundation production
and testing clusters, but may be useful for anyone wishing to avoid directly
managing MediaWiki dependencies with Composer.


Usage
-----

Checkout this library into $IP/vendor using `git clone <URL>` or add the
repository as a git submodule using `git submodule add <URL> vendor` followed
by `git submodule update --init`.


Adding or updating libraries
----------------------------

0. Read the [documentation] on the process for adding new libraries.
1. Ensure you're using version 2.8.1 of composer via `composer --version`.
   Everyone using the same version means that diffs from the autoloader are
   minimal and so easier to validate and manually rebase. You can typically
   do this by running `composer self-update 2.8.1` (possibly with sudo).
   If you want to avoid running untrusted code, you can use Docker; for
   example, to run `composer update --no-dev` do:
   ```
   docker run --rm -it -u "$(id -u):$(id -g)" -v "$PWD/.git:/src/.git:ro" -v "$PWD:/src" -w /src docker-registry.wikimedia.org/releng/composer-php74:0.3.3-s4 update --no-dev
   ```
2. Edit the composer.json file to add/update the libraries you want to change.
   It is recommended that you use `composer require <package> <version>
   --no-update` to do so as composer will then automatically sort the
   composer.json file.
3. Run `composer update --no-dev` to download files and update the autoloader.
4. Add all the new dependencies that got installed to composer.json as well,
   so that everything has their version pinned. (You can look at the changes
   in composer.lock or composer/installed.json to see what they are.)
5. In some cases, the libraries might include not needed files (e.g. test files,
   project files, etc). If you cannot exclude them from library's archive
   (e.g. by `export-ignore`ing unwanted files in library's `.gitattributes`
   file), you can skip checking them in by listing them in `.gitignore` file.
6. Rarely, lint checks fail because test files in some library were written
   for an unsupported PHP version. In that case add the test directories to
   the --exclude parameter in the script > test field in composer.json, and
   to .gitignore.
7. Add and commit changes as a gerrit patch.
8. Review and merge changes.

Note that you MUST pair patches changing versions of libraries used by MediaWiki
itself with ones for the "core" repo. Specifically, the patch in mediawiki/core
must have a `Depends-On` footer to the patch in mediawiki/vendor.

The vendor repo has special configuration, which skips the integrity checks and
so allowing a circular dependency Gordian knot to be fixed. However, this means
that, if merged alone without a pair, you'll cause ALL patches in MediaWiki and
ALL extensions to fail their continuous integration tests.

If in doubt, seek advice from regular commiters to this repository.


[Composer]: https://getcomposer.org/
[MediaWiki]: https://www.mediawiki.org/wiki/MediaWiki
[documentation]: https://www.mediawiki.org/wiki/Manual:External_libraries
