ruflin/elastica/README.md, before:

Elastica: elasticsearch PHP Client
==================================

[![Latest Stable Version](https://poser.pugx.org/ruflin/Elastica/v/stable.png)](https://packagist.org/packages/ruflin/elastica)
[![Build Status](https://secure.travis-ci.org/ruflin/Elastica.png?branch=master)](http://travis-ci.org/ruflin/Elastica)
[![codecov.io](http://codecov.io/github/ruflin/Elastica/coverage.svg?branch=master)](http://codecov.io/github/ruflin/Elastica?branch=master)
[![Dependency Status](https://www.versioneye.com/php/ruflin:elastica/dev-master/badge.svg)](https://www.versioneye.com/php/ruflin:elastica/dev-master)
[![Scrutinizer Code Quality](https://scrutinizer-ci.com/g/ruflin/Elastica/badges/quality-score.png?b=master)](https://scrutinizer-ci.com/g/ruflin/Elastica/?branch=master)
[![Total Downloads](https://poser.pugx.org/ruflin/Elastica/downloads.png)](https://packagist.org/packages/ruflin/elastica)
[![Join the chat at https://gitter.im/ruflin/Elastica](https://badges.gitter.im/Join%20Chat.svg)](https://gitter.im/ruflin/Elastica?utm_source=badge&utm_medium=badge&utm_campaign=pr-badge&utm_content=badge)

All documentation for Elastica can be found under [Elastica.io](http://Elastica.io/).
If you have questions, don't hesitate to ask them on [Stackoverflow](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/elastica) and add the Tag "Elastica" or
in our [Gitter](https://gitter.im/ruflin/Elastica) channel.
All library issues should go to the [issue tracker from github](https://github.com/ruflin/Elastica/issues).


Compatibility
-------------
This release is compatible with all Elasticsearch 6.x releases. It was tested with version 6.2.4.


Contributing
------------
Contributions are always welcome. For details on how to contribute, check the [CONTRIBUTING](https://github.com/ruflin/Elastica/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md) file.


Dependencies
------------
| Project | Version | Required |
|---------|---------|----------|
|[Elasticsearch](https://github.com/elasticsearch/elasticsearch/tree/6.0)|6.0|yes|

Commit message:

Update ruflin/elastica and elasticsearch/elasticsearch
ruflin/elastica from 6.0.2 to 6.1.1
 - 6.x branch is good with ES ^6.0 and PHP ^7.0
elasticsearch/elasticsearch from 6.0.1.0 to 6.5.1
 - 6.5.x branch is good with ES >= 6.0, < 6.6 and PHP ^7.0

Change-Id: I840c025c22b72445af6e72925cd0a3b85b951e36

ruflin/elastica/README.md, after:

Elastica: elasticsearch PHP Client
==================================

[![Latest Stable Version](https://poser.pugx.org/ruflin/Elastica/v/stable.png)](https://packagist.org/packages/ruflin/elastica)
[![Build Status](https://secure.travis-ci.org/ruflin/Elastica.png?branch=master)](http://travis-ci.org/ruflin/Elastica)
[![codecov.io](http://codecov.io/github/ruflin/Elastica/coverage.svg?branch=master)](http://codecov.io/github/ruflin/Elastica?branch=master)
[![Dependency Status](https://www.versioneye.com/php/ruflin:elastica/dev-master/badge.svg)](https://www.versioneye.com/php/ruflin:elastica/dev-master)
[![Scrutinizer Code Quality](https://scrutinizer-ci.com/g/ruflin/Elastica/badges/quality-score.png?b=master)](https://scrutinizer-ci.com/g/ruflin/Elastica/?branch=master)
[![Total Downloads](https://poser.pugx.org/ruflin/Elastica/downloads.png)](https://packagist.org/packages/ruflin/elastica)
[![Join the chat at https://gitter.im/ruflin/Elastica](https://badges.gitter.im/Join%20Chat.svg)](https://gitter.im/ruflin/Elastica?utm_source=badge&utm_medium=badge&utm_campaign=pr-badge&utm_content=badge)

All documentation for Elastica can be found under [Elastica.io](http://Elastica.io/).
If you have questions, don't hesitate to ask them on [Stackoverflow](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/elastica) and add the Tag "Elastica" or
in our [Gitter](https://gitter.im/ruflin/Elastica) channel.
All library issues should go to the [issue tracker from github](https://github.com/ruflin/Elastica/issues).


Compatibility
-------------
This release is compatible with all Elasticsearch 6.x releases. It was tested with version 6.5.2.


Contributing
------------
Contributions are always welcome. For details on how to contribute, check the [CONTRIBUTING](https://github.com/ruflin/Elastica/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md) file.


Versions & Dependencies
------------
This project tries to follow Elasticsearch in terms of [End of Life](https://www.elastic.co/support/eol) and maintenance since 5.x

| Elastica                                                                                | ElasticSearch | elasticsearch-php | PHP      |
| --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------- | ----------------- | -------- |
| [6.x](https://github.com/ruflin/Elastica/tree/master)                                   | 6.x           | ^6.0              | ^7.0     |
| [5.x](https://github.com/ruflin/Elastica/tree/5.x)                                      | 5.x           | ^5.0              | \>=5.6   |
| [3.2.3](https://github.com/ruflin/Elastica/tree/3.2.3) (unmaintained)                   | 2.4.0         | no                | \>=5.4   |
| [2.x](https://github.com/ruflin/Elastica/tree/2.x) (unmaintained)                       | 1.7.2         | no                | \>=5.3.3 |
------------
