wikimedia/ip-utils/README.md, before:

[![Latest Stable Version]](https://packagist.org/packages/wikimedia/ip-utils) [![License]](https://packagist.org/packages/wikimedia/ip-utils)

IPUtils
=====================

A series of utilities for working with IP addresses, both IPv4 and IPv6.

Additional documentation about the library can be found on
[MediaWiki.org](https://www.mediawiki.org/wiki/IPUtils).


Usage
-----

```php
use Wikimedia\IPUtils;

IPUtils::isIPAddress( '::1' );
IPUtils::isIPv4( '124.24.52.13' );
```


Running tests
-------------

    composer install --prefer-dist
    composer test


History
-------

This library was first introduced in [MediaWiki 1.7][] ([r15572][]). It was
split out of the MediaWiki codebase and published as an independent library
during the [MediaWiki 1.34][] development cycle.


---
[MediaWiki 1.7]: https://www.mediawiki.org/wiki/MediaWiki_1.7
[r15572]: https://www.mediawiki.org/wiki/Special:Code/MediaWiki/15572
[MediaWiki 1.34]: https://www.mediawiki.org/wiki/MediaWiki_1.34
[Latest Stable Version]: https://poser.pugx.org/wikimedia/ip-utils/v/stable.svg
[License]: https://poser.pugx.org/wikimedia/ip-utils/license.svg

Commit message:

Update wikimedia/ip-utils to 5.0.0
Change-Id: Ic74513640ef826c5b56fe0bc8331ff1fdad4d0a6

wikimedia/ip-utils/README.md, after:

[![Packagist](https://img.shields.io/packagist/v/wikimedia/ip-utils.svg?style=flat)](https://packagist.org/packages/wikimedia/ip-utils)

IPUtils
=======

Parse, match, and analyze IP addresses and CIDR ranges. This library supports both IPv4 and IPv6.

Additional documentation about the library can be found on
[mediawiki.org](https://www.mediawiki.org/wiki/IPUtils).


Usage
-----

<pre lang="php">
use Wikimedia\IPUtils;

IPUtils::isIPAddress( '::1' );
IPUtils::isIPv4( '124.24.52.13' );
</pre>

`IPSet` can be up to 100x faster than calling `IPUtils::isInRange()`
over multiple CIDR specs.

<pre lang="php">
use Wikimedia\IPSet;

// This will calculate an optimized data structure for the set
$ipset = new IPSet( [
    '208.80.154.0/26',
    '2620:0:861:1::/64',
    '10.64.0.0/22',
] );

// Run fast checks against the same re-usable IPSet object
if ( $ipset->match( $ip ) ) {
    // ...
}
</pre>


Running tests
-------------

    composer install --prefer-dist
    composer test


History
-------

The IPUtils class started life in 2006 as part of [MediaWiki 1.7][https://www.mediawiki.org/wiki/MediaWiki_1.7] ([r15572][https://www.mediawiki.org/wiki/Special:Code/MediaWiki/15572]). It was
split out of the MediaWiki codebase and published as an independent library
during the [MediaWiki 1.34][https://www.mediawiki.org/wiki/MediaWiki_1.34] development cycle.

The IPSet class was created by Brandon Black in 2014 as faster alternative to `IPUtils::isInRange()` (MediaWiki 1.24, [change 131758](https://gerrit.wikimedia.org/r/131758)). It was moved to a library during the MediaWiki 1.26 development cycle ([change 221179](https://gerrit.wikimedia.org/r/221179), [change 218384](https://gerrit.wikimedia.org/r/218384)).
