firebase/php-jwt/README.md, before:

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/firebase/php-jwt.png?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/firebase/php-jwt)

PHP-JWT
=======
A simple library to encode and decode JSON Web Tokens (JWT) in PHP. Should
conform to the [current spec](http://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-ietf-oauth-json-web-token-06)

Installation
------------

Use composer to manage your dependencies and download PHP-JWT:

```bash
composer require firebase/php-jwt
```

Example
-------
```php
<?php

$key = "example_key";
$token = array(
    "iss" => "http://example.org",
    "aud" => "http://example.com",
    "iat" => 1356999524,
    "nbf" => 1357000000
);

/**
 * IMPORTANT:
 * You must specify supported algorithms for your application. See
 * https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-ietf-jose-json-web-algorithms-40
 * for a list of spec-compliant algorithms.
 */
$jwt = JWT::encode($token, $key);
$decoded = JWT::decode($jwt, $key, array('HS256'));

print_r($decoded);

/*
 NOTE: This will now be an object instead of an associative array. To get
 an associative array, you will need to cast it as such:
*/

$decoded_array = (array) $decoded;

/**
 * You can add a leeway to account for when there is a clock skew times between
 * the signing and verifying servers. It is recommended that this leeway should
 * not be bigger than a few minutes.
 *
 * Source: http://self-issued.info/docs/draft-ietf-oauth-json-web-token.html#nbfDef
 */
JWT::$leeway = 60; // $leeway in seconds
$decoded = JWT::decode($jwt, $key, array('HS256'));

?>
```

Changelog
---------

#### 2.1.0 / 2015-05-20
- Add support for adding a leeway to `JWT:decode()` that accounts for clock skew
between signing and verifying entities. Thanks to [@lcabral](https://github.com/lcabral)!
- Add support for passing an object implementing the `ArrayAccess` interface for
`$keys` argument in `JWT::decode()`. Thanks to [@aztech-dev](https://github.com/aztech-dev)!

#### 2.0.0 / 2015-04-01
- **Note**: It is strongly recommended that you update to > v2.0.0 to address
  known security vulnerabilities in prior versions when both symmetric and
  asymmetric keys are used together.
- Update signature for `JWT::decode(...)` to require an array of supported
  algorithms to use when verifying token signatures.


Tests
-----
Run the tests using phpunit:

```bash
$ pear install PHPUnit
$ phpunit --configuration phpunit.xml.dist
PHPUnit 3.7.10 by Sebastian Bergmann.
.....
Time: 0 seconds, Memory: 2.50Mb
OK (5 tests, 5 assertions)
```

License
-------
[3-Clause BSD](http://opensource.org/licenses/BSD-3-Clause).

Commit message:

Update firebase/php-jwt to 3.0.0
Bug: T119294
Change-Id: I0abdddb3716fb585528fd01d9aaf6050b1b8b659

firebase/php-jwt/README.md, after:

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/firebase/php-jwt.png?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/firebase/php-jwt)
[![Latest Stable Version](https://poser.pugx.org/firebase/php-jwt/v/stable)](https://packagist.org/packages/firebase/php-jwt)
[![Total Downloads](https://poser.pugx.org/firebase/php-jwt/downloads)](https://packagist.org/packages/firebase/php-jwt)
[![License](https://poser.pugx.org/firebase/php-jwt/license)](https://packagist.org/packages/firebase/php-jwt)

PHP-JWT
=======
A simple library to encode and decode JSON Web Tokens (JWT) in PHP. Should
conform to the [current spec](http://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-ietf-oauth-json-web-token-06)

Installation
------------

Use composer to manage your dependencies and download PHP-JWT:

```bash
composer require firebase/php-jwt
```

Example
-------
```php
<?php
use \Firebase\JWT\JWT;

$key = "example_key";
$token = array(
    "iss" => "http://example.org",
    "aud" => "http://example.com",
    "iat" => 1356999524,
    "nbf" => 1357000000
);

/**
 * IMPORTANT:
 * You must specify supported algorithms for your application. See
 * https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-ietf-jose-json-web-algorithms-40
 * for a list of spec-compliant algorithms.
 */
$jwt = JWT::encode($token, $key);
$decoded = JWT::decode($jwt, $key, array('HS256'));

print_r($decoded);

/*
 NOTE: This will now be an object instead of an associative array. To get
 an associative array, you will need to cast it as such:
*/

$decoded_array = (array) $decoded;

/**
 * You can add a leeway to account for when there is a clock skew times between
 * the signing and verifying servers. It is recommended that this leeway should
 * not be bigger than a few minutes.
 *
 * Source: http://self-issued.info/docs/draft-ietf-oauth-json-web-token.html#nbfDef
 */
JWT::$leeway = 60; // $leeway in seconds
$decoded = JWT::decode($jwt, $key, array('HS256'));

?>
```

Changelog
---------

#### 3.0.0 / 2015-07-22
- Minimum PHP version updated from `5.2.0` to `5.3.0`.
- Add `\Firebase\JWT` namespace. See
[#59](https://github.com/firebase/php-jwt/pull/59) for details. Thanks to
[@Dashron](https://github.com/Dashron)!
- Require a non-empty key to decode and verify a JWT. See
[#60](https://github.com/firebase/php-jwt/pull/60) for details. Thanks to
[@sjones608](https://github.com/sjones608)!
- Cleaner documentation blocks in the code. See
[#62](https://github.com/firebase/php-jwt/pull/62) for details. Thanks to
[@johanderuijter](https://github.com/johanderuijter)!

#### 2.2.0 / 2015-06-22
- Add support for adding custom, optional JWT headers to `JWT::encode()`. See
[#53](https://github.com/firebase/php-jwt/pull/53/files) for details. Thanks to
[@mcocaro](https://github.com/mcocaro)!

#### 2.1.0 / 2015-05-20
- Add support for adding a leeway to `JWT:decode()` that accounts for clock skew
between signing and verifying entities. Thanks to [@lcabral](https://github.com/lcabral)!
- Add support for passing an object implementing the `ArrayAccess` interface for
`$keys` argument in `JWT::decode()`. Thanks to [@aztech-dev](https://github.com/aztech-dev)!

#### 2.0.0 / 2015-04-01
- **Note**: It is strongly recommended that you update to > v2.0.0 to address
  known security vulnerabilities in prior versions when both symmetric and
  asymmetric keys are used together.
- Update signature for `JWT::decode(...)` to require an array of supported
  algorithms to use when verifying token signatures.


Tests
-----
Run the tests using phpunit:

```bash
$ pear install PHPUnit
$ phpunit --configuration phpunit.xml.dist
PHPUnit 3.7.10 by Sebastian Bergmann.
.....
Time: 0 seconds, Memory: 2.50Mb
OK (5 tests, 5 assertions)
```

License
-------
[3-Clause BSD](http://opensource.org/licenses/BSD-3-Clause).
